---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

## How to Drive Consensus and Transparency: Video Reflection 
It’s agreed that one of the main issues with open source development is the fact that how can a consensus be formed when there are many people from different backgrounds and experiences. However, the ultimate goal is the same so it is vital to not lose focus. Communication is key to create fruitful discussion and prevent miscommunications. Listening allows for people to feel included which thus promotes collaboration. It is also key to be inclusive, being respectful and understand there are cultural differences. Not only that but by breaking bigger decisions into smaller ones, it becomes more manageable. Despite this when conflicts appear, the final goal must not be lost and a common ground should be discovered. Overall, being able to adapt to different environments and being empathetic can allow for clear discussions that leads to the goal being reached. 

## Code of Conduct Activity: Part 1
The benefits of having a code of conduct is to ensure that those who join or participate behave to prevent any offense to others. This is vital as it ensures there is regulation to how people act ensuring a professional and friendly environment. The Contributor Convenant does not include a Conflict Resolution paragraph which discusses the importance of disagreement in a professional manner and what to do when there is offensive behavior. The Contributor Convenant also does not include goals within their About paragraph which outlines the purposes and overall goals Go is trying to achieve. The [Eclipse Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php) is structured differently such that it is very strict and straightforward in what is allowed and what is not. This may be due to multiple previous incidents that occurred, which prompted Eclipse to have a different structure. 

## Code of Conduct Activity: Part 2
Unlike the code of conduct for the Go project, the Sugar Labs code of conduct appears to be much more friendly in terms of its tone. It appears to be based off the Go code of conduct however, it specifically explains and emphasizes each point from Go's values.

## Code of Conduct Activity: Part 3 
The open source project I want to discuss is VSCode which adopts [Microsofts Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). Like the previous code of conducts, VSCode lists the behaviors that are acceptable and the ones that are unacceptable. They also include a paragraph on reporting misdemeanors. However, a main difference is the inclusion of a paragraph on AI use. They accept the use of AI and emphasize the importance of claiming the work as your own while also understanding it. 
