---
layout: post
title: Week 1 Introductions
---


## What is Open Source

When I hear the term "Open Source", I think of free code or a base that is publicly available. Additionally, I think about cooperation and the ability of others to work and build projects together, adding to an existing foundation. One advantage of open source software is trust as anyone can view the software without having to blindly trust the company that produced it. Not only that but it leads to a community in which many people can help contribute to improving or fixing an exisiting software. An advantage for closed software is how user accessible it is since it is made for profit by large companies. It is also less prone to attacks as the code is hidden making it harder to find any vulnerable spots. Not only that but since it is one dedicated team working on the code, one can expect consistent updates that are reliable to well-defined. However, despite how great open source software sounds, there are some issues with it such as poor documentation. Since those who work on open source code are volunteers they are more likely to avoid documenting viewing it as extra work and as a result there may be difficulty in user accessibility. This can also lead to another problem of burnout from those who are working on the software since they are not forced to work on it. I decided to register for a class on open source software because I do not have much knowledge on it and from learning what it is I am intrigued to see what open source software out there that I can make changes to!

## Open Source Projects 
An open source software that I regularly use is Python which has an abundance of libraries which allows for the community to build and collaborate in making tools. Another interesting one is Wikipedia which promotes collaboration where many can edit and improve information available. I have also worked with Linux whenever I would work inside a Docker environment. The tools in the Linux file system makes it very accessible for me due to its open source nature. Another open source project that influence me is the video game Minecraft which itself is not open source however, the mods and community creations are. The community come together and work on making the game more fun or imporve quality of life functions which demonstraytes the creativity that can come from open source. 

