---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

## Presentations 
Watching all of the extensions created by my peers made me realized how creative they are. Many of the extensions were either new ideas that did not exist or existing extensions but included a new feature. Not only that but everyone presented really well as each partner were able to speak about their groups work. The biggest take away from our own group is we should have rehearsed or decided who would speak about what before hand instead of choosing at the time of the presentation. 

## Videos 
The key point for *Thoughts on Open Source* by Hightower is that open source is best when collaboration with businesses come with limits. Open source code does mean a company can simply take your code and profit of it however, that does not always mean it is a bad thing. The point of open source is share and collaborate. However, there must be a balance especially when giving away code forever without sustainable support can hurt developers financially. 

Furthermore, the key point for *Managing Supply Chain Risk in a World of AI* by McLuckie is the emphasis on security. Generative AI speeds up development but brings vulnerabilities. Open source can be taken advantage of by attackers and so it is important for open source supply chains to have a strong security. 

In the video *Linus Torvalds in Conversation with Dirk Hohndel* they discuss about how open source succeeds due to the collaboration and transparency between developers. Maintainers are needed to deal with open source projects. It is also important to keep a respectable environement in open source as well. 

## Style of Presentations
Watching all of the presentations made me realize that I should review everything about what I am going to present to make me knowledgable in my topic. This is so that I do not stutter or struggle while presenting because I lack information. 

